Improve Documentation for Non-CellProfiler Datasets in Pycytominer (#430)
cytomining/pycytominer: README.md

The tool is most often used for processing data through the following pipeline:

<img height="700" align="center" alt="Description of the pycytominer pipeline. Images flow from feature extraction and are processed with a series of steps" src="./media/pipeline.png">

> Figure 1. The standard image-based profiling experiment and the role of Pycytominer. (A) In the experimental phase, a scientist plates cells, often perturbing them with chemical or genetic agents and performs microscopy imaging. In image analysis, using CellProfiler for example, a scientist applies several data processing steps to generate image-based profiles. In addition, scientists can apply a more flexible approach by using deep learning models, such as DeepProfiler, to generate image-based profiles. (B) Pycytominer performs image-based profiling to process morphology features and make them ready for downstream analyses. (C) Pycytominer performs five fundamental functions, each implemented with a simple and intuitive API. Each function enables a user to implement various methods for executing operations.

> [Click here for high resolution pipeline image]("./media/pipeline.png)

Reviewer: again, I think we need full for RTD

> Image data flow from a microscope to cell segmentation and feature extraction tools (e.g. [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/) or [DeepProfiler](https://cytomining.github.io/DeepProfiler-handbook/docs/00-welcome.html)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image data flow from a microscope to cell segmentation and feature extraction tools (e.g. [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/) or [DeepProfiler](https://cytomining.github.io/DeepProfiler-handbook/docs/00-welcome.html)) (**Figure 1A**).
```

From here, additional single cell processing tools curate the single cell readouts into a form manageable for pycytominer input.
For [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/), we use [cytominer-database](https://github.com/cytomining/cytominer-database) or [CytoTable](https://github.com/cytomining/CytoTable).
For [DeepProfiler](https://cytomining.github.io/DeepProfiler-handbook/docs/00-welcome.html), we include single cell processing tools in [pycytominer.cyto_utils](pycytominer/cyto_utils/).

> The Pycytominer API consists of five key steps applied to the single-cell output (outlined above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, Pycytominer performs reproducible image-based profiling (**Figure 1B**).
The Pycytominer API consists of five key steps (**Figure 1C**).
```

> The outputs generated by Pycytominer are utilized for downstream analysis, which includes machine learning models and statistical testing to derive insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The outputs generated by Pycytominer are utilized for downstream analysis, which includes machine learning models and statistical testing to derive biological insights.
```

Pycytominer currently supports [parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) and compressed text file (e.g. `.csv.gz`) i/o.

## Data structure

Pycytominer processes all data using [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) DataFrames.

Currently, Pycytominer fully supports data generated by [CellProfiler]('https://cellprofiler.org/'), adhering to its specific data structure and naming conventions.

CellProfiler-generated image-based profiles typically consist of two main components:

- **Metadata features:** This section contains information about the experiment, such as plate ID, well position, incubation time, perturbation type, and other relevant experimental details.

- **Morphology features:** These are the quantified morphological features captured from microscopy images. Naming of these features is structured like this

> The feature naming scheme in Pycytominer follows a specific structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These features follow a specific structure.
```

Pycytominer currently supports [parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) and compressed text file (e.g. `.csv.gz`) i/o.

### CellProfiler support

> Currently, Pycytominer fully supports data generated by [CellProfiler]('https://cellprofiler.org/'), adhering defaults to its specific data structure and naming conventions.

Reviewer 2: Consider removing the single quotes here (it didn't seem like there was a need to include these).

```suggestion
Currently, Pycytominer fully supports data generated by [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/), adhering defaults to its specific data structure and naming conventions.
```

CellProfiler-generated image-based profiles typically consist of two main components:

- **Metadata features:** This section contains information about the experiment, such as plate ID, well position, incubation time, perturbation type, and other relevant experimental details. These feature names are prefixed with `Metadata_`, indicating that the data in these columns contain metadata information.

> - **Morphology features:** These are the quantified morphological features prefixed with the default compartments (`Cells_`, `Cytoplasm_`, and `Nuclei_`). Pycytominer also supports non-default compartment names.

Reviewer 2: Is there an example of a non-default compartment name we could show here?

Author: I don't have experience working with non-default settings, but one potential issue could be changes in compartment names, such as differences in capitalization. In such cases, users would need to use the compartments argument as shown [here](https://github.com/cytomining/pycytominer/blob/4b772a5d7e7ded6c5ae67a024f28102c4d2305db/pycytominer/cyto_utils/util.py#L18). This adjustment would also affect the linking of columns as well [here](https://github.com/cytomining/pycytominer/blob/4b772a5d7e7ded6c5ae67a024f28102c4d2305db/pycytominer/cyto_utils/single_cell_ingest_utils.py#L5).

Reviewer: i think @d33bs is just asking for simple example, which I like the idea of. I'll make the change

> - **Morphology features:** These are the quantified morphological features prefixed with the default compartments (`Cells_`, `Cytoplasm_`, and `Nuclei_`). Pycytominer also supports non-default compartment names.

Reviewer 2: Are the defaults mentioned here defaults from Pycytominer or CellProfiler's perspective? Could it be important to signify which somehow?

Reviewer: I think it is ok to leave as is

> Note, [`pycytominer.cyto_utils.cells.SingleCells()`](pycytominer/cyto_utils/cells.py) contains code to interact with single-cell SQLite files, which are output from CellProfiler.

Reviewer 2: Minor rewording suggestion.

```suggestion
Note, [`pycytominer.cyto_utils.cells.SingleCells()`](pycytominer/cyto_utils/cells.py) contains code designed to interact with single-cell SQLite files exported from CellProfiler.
```

> Processing capabilities for SQLite files depends on SQLite file size and your available computational resources (for ex. memory and cores).

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion to be specific about what type of cores (I don't believe GPU are involved).

```suggestion
Processing capabilities for SQLite files depends on SQLite file size and your available computational resources (for ex. memory and CPU).
```

### Handling inputs from other image analysis tools (other than CellProfiler)

Pycytominer also supports processing of raw morphological features from image analysis tools beyond [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/).

> These tools include In Carta, Harmony, and others.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to include links to these products, in alignment with what we do for CellProfiler.
```suggestion
These tools include [In Carta](https://www.moleculardevices.com/products/cellular-imaging-systems/high-content-analysis/in-carta-image-analysis-software), [Harmony](https://www.revvity.com/product/harmony-5-2-office-revvity-hh17000019#product-overview), and others.
```

Using Pycytominer with these tools requires minor modifications to function arguments, and we encourage these users to pay particularly close attention to individual function documentation.

For example, to resolve potential feature issues in the `normalize()` function, you must manually specify the morphological features using the `features` [parameter](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.normalize.normalize).

> This parameter is also available in other key steps, such as [`aggregate`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.aggregate.aggregate) and [`feature_select`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.feature_select.feature_select).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `features` parameter is also available in other key steps, such as [`aggregate`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.aggregate.aggregate) and [`feature_select`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.feature_select.feature_select).
```

> If you are using Pycytominer with these other tools, we'd love to hear from you so that we can learn how to best support broad and multiple use-cases.

Reviewer 2: Should we indicate "how" to hear from people here (issues?). Aside, could it be useful to enable GitHub Discussions to help with community engagement on this front?

Reviewer: great point! I will address

)
```

### Handling Non-CellProfiler Morphological Features in Pycytominer

> In some cases, raw morphological features may not be extracted from [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/).
> While Pycytominer fully supports features extracted by [`CellProfiler`](https://cellprofiler.org/), errors may occur when using features from other tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pycytominer also supports processing of raw morphological features from image analysis tools beyond [CellProfiler](https://cellprofiler.org/).
These tools include In Carta, Harmony, and others.
Using Pycytominer with these tools requires minor modifications to function arguments, and we encourage these users to pay particularly close attention to individual function documentation.

If you are using Pycytominer with these other tools, we'd love to hear from you so that we can learn how to best support broad and multiple use-cases.
```

> To resolve this, you can manually specify the morphological features using the `features` [parameter](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.normalize.normalize).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to resolve potential feature issues in the `normalize()` function, you can manually specify the morphological features using the `features` [parameter](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.normalize.normalize).
```

> This parameter is also available in other key steps, such as [`aggregate`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.aggregate.aggregate), [`feature_select`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.feature_select.feature_select), and [`consensus`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.feature_select.feature_select).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter is also available in other key steps, such as [`aggregate`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.aggregate.aggregate) and [`feature_select`](https://pycytominer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pycytominer.html#pycytominer.feature_select.feature_select).
```

Below is an example of loading data that is not from [`CellProfiler`](https://cellprofiler.org/), demonstrating how to handle non-CellProfiler features.

```python

> # Real world example using a different dataset

Reviewer: @axiomcura - maybe the reason why this is marked as a draft, but this example _is_ using a CellProfiler output

Author: You’re right, the code and link provided does point to CellProfiler. I was considering adding a comment like ‘assuming this dataset was not generated by CellProfiler,’ but in hindsight, I think this might still end up confusing users.

Are there any datasets available that weren’t generated by CellProfiler? Unfortunately, the InCarta data is private, so we can’t use it as an example. 

I can also remove those links and add placeholders like ‘link to non-CellProfiler data,’ which we can update once we have an appropriate link available.

import pandas as pd
import pycytominer

commit = "da8ae6a3bc103346095d61b4ee02f08fc85a5d98"
url = f"https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/broadinstitute/lincs-cell-painting/{commit}/profiles/2016_04_01_a549_48hr_batch1/SQ00014812/SQ00014812_augmented.csv.gz"

# assuming this is dataset was not generated by CellProfiler
df = pd.read_csv(url)

# split the metadata and morphology features columns
metadata_features = df.columns[0:26].tolist()
morphology_features = df.columns[26::].tolist()

# use the 'features' parameter to declare what features pycytominer should focus
normalized_df = pycytominer.normalize(
    profiles=df,
    features=morphology_features,
    method="standardize",
    samples="Metadata_broad_sample == 'DMSO'"
)
```

> **Note:** We are actively working on enhancing `pycytominer` to support morphological features extracted from a variety of software tools!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
